The first 400,000 reads of each file were taken for this example data set.

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/PRJNA607202

Publication: Banerjee R et al., "Tailoring a Global Iron Regulon to a Uropathogen.", mBio, 2020 Mar 24;11(2)

Tailoring a global iron regulon to a uropathogen
Pathogenicity islands and plasmids encode genes for pathogenesis of various
Escherichia coli pathotypes.Although there is a basic understanding of the
contribution of these virulence factors to disease, less is known about
variation in regulatory networks in determining disease phenotypes. Here we
dissected aregulatory network directed by the conserved iron homeostasis
regulator, Ferric Uptake Regulator (Fur), inuropathogenic E. coli strain
CFT073. Comparing anaerobic genome-scale Fur DNA binding, with Fur dependent
transcript expression and protein levels of the uropathogen to that of
commensal E. coli K-12 strain MG1655, showed that the Fur regulon of the core
genome is conserved but also includes genes within the pathogenicity/genetic
islands. Unexpectedly, regulons indicative of amino acid limitation and the
general stress response were also indirectly activated in the uropathogen fur
mutant, suggesting that induction of the Fur regulon increases amino acid
demand. Using RpoS levels as a proxy, addition of amino acids mitigated the
stress. In addition, iron chelation increased RpoS to the same levels as in the
fur mutant. The increased amino acid demand of the fur mutant or iron chelated
cells was exacerbated by aerobic conditions, which could be partly explained by
the O2-dependent synthesis of the siderophore aerobactin, encoded within a
pathogenicity island. Taken together, this data suggest in the iron-poor
environment of the urinary tract, amino acid availability could play a role in
the proliferation of this uropathogen, particularly if there is sufficient O2 to
produce aerobactin. Overall design: Four RNA-seq samples each with three
biological replicates were analyzed (WT, deltaFur, deltaRhyB,
deltaFur_deltaRhyB). Two biological replicate ChIP-seq samples for Fur
chromosomal occupancy along with two deltaFur ChIP-seq control biolocial
replicates and two CHIP-sq input biological replicates.
